---
layout: page
title: "God, Man and the Prostate Gland"
---

You, my young brothers, who still choose to faithfully cling to the perfect God doctrine no doubt have yet to suffer the unrelenting torture, not to mention the inconvenience of a strangling, out of control prostate gland. Now, since I am not a physician, I won't try to get too technical about this very complicated subject. Let me just say; without the cooperation of this tiny clump of tissue wrapped snugly around the urethra, your chance of having a normal sex life into your latter years is rather slim. Words like firm and ejaculation, which in the past you may have referred to with eager anticipation, could very well become obsolete footnotes in your already limited vocabulary on the subject. So trust me on this one, it could be in your best interest to pay attention. In this case, a little knowledge could save your life.

Having personally experienced the symptoms, testing, treatments and finally two surgical procedures that doggedly followed the disease, I can guiltlessly declare "The Head Engineer" screwed up! You can quote me on this. In the most irreverent terms, I declare him to be a failure in Prostate 101. He plainly erred, miscalculated, goofed. Did I leave anything out? And what's more, again, in my opinion, your neighborhood plumber could have come up with a better system. Do you get what I'm saying?

Now I'm not referring to gene mutations or environmental factors scientists call disease triggers or the unavoidable accident of birth. No, I am referring here to simple, logical everyday design and construction. Bolts and nuts — if you will pardon a vulgar delitescence. As unfathomable as it seems, the omniscient one calculated urine would flow, unobstructed through the urethra on a command. (Excuse me where's the toilet?) How could he have been so wrong? We know in about fifty percent of men over age 55 the prostate continues to grow as if it were still in adolescence. And as it enlarges it gradually interferes with the normal flow of urine, until finally in many cases, heroic steps must be taken to prevent complications. Now, I ask you, how could He commit such a glaring physiological blunder? I was led to believe by divine physiology was his strongest subject. I suggest the problem was essentially a result of inexperience and impatience. I firmly believe if He had asked the right questions in a timely manner, we wouldn't be discussing the subject. He could have asked Adam if he noticed a distinct burning sensation when urinating. Do you urinate very frequently in the course of a day, he might have asked. Or, He might have questioned Eve if she could think of any hard evidence that would show Adam’s well known sexual prowess had lately showed signs of diminishing.

Putting everything I've said so far aside: What difference would it have made in the scheme of things if He had paused for thirty days even sixty days and then gone back to check his work? This we call: "testing". Could there be something more important? I think not.
Now I think some of you would like to suggest he makes no mistakes. It was just another way to show the rarity of perfection and to remind us of our mortality. I don't buy it! Our mortality is proof enough of our imperfection. Who needs more?

So, my Brothers, especially those of you suffering from benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) and are still unaware of the problem, next time you stand patiently above the bowl, dribbling and cursing to the heavens (soon, I am certain), don't ignore the symptoms. No one is perfect.